I'm in an airport waiting room. I'm wearing my grey zip-up hoody with little orange stars scattered across. It is lined with fleece. Boarding pass shuffling and intercom beeping echo across the cold linoleum.

A crackle breaks the air as the sun breaks the horizon, setting slightly, and casting shadows along the terminal. The travelers freeze. A plane has just landed. I carry my things—a few chunky chapter books, magnet letters, and my stuffed lamb Coco—down the onramp. The sky overhead is grey and looming, suggesting a burdened demeanor, hinting at coming rain. But it always rains here.

The forest is so deep, so dense, and so green. Ferns creep through leafy underbrush. It always smells of Pacific Sea, of water and humidity. A cold, crisp humidity. It is fading now but I can just smell the popcorn popping up on the countertop—too tall for me to see. I wait until it overflows into the large bowl that my father will butter and salt. On the weekend I will go down to Tacoma for my Chinese language class where I learn the symbol for "king". 王. On the weekdays I dig for China or Narnia. I never went to preschool.

The plane lands and the air is humid still, but much thicker. I step off the plane and the sticky heat hits me like a wall. It's a barrier I cross and remain on the other side of for seven years.

I wake every morning to the specific sound of birdsong cooing. The Asian Koel. You have to know it. Palm leaves shadow every path I walk down and pouring thunderstorms lull my dreams into circuit. Pink taxis race through rain; through sun rays. Though I never ride in one —circumstances grant me a personal driver. In spring when the hot season is slipping into the wet, din-sor-pong is pasted on the street and cool water is tossed from dented aluminum bowls. Songkran: when all bad things are washed away, giving course to the new. In the fall, I travel to school alongside motorcyclists decked in neon. Croning prayer from the mosque down the alley envelops these bustling mornings. I can hear it even from my house. After school, I hope to visit the Roti man. Though of Indian origin, the Thais love roti. I like to think Bangkok took it in and spat it back out. Like it did me. It's how they phrased it in The Hangover: "Bangkok has him now. She'll never give him back". Except in my case it is a she.

But I am back. I am in the waiting room. It is dusk again. The linoleum floor is still shiny—how much do they spend on Swiffer here? Crackling permeates the loudspeaker in the airport and also my mind. I am slumped once again against a black slippery seat. I am asking now: Where am I from? When people ask where I am from, what do I say?

The plane lands once more. My carry-on is empty save for my favorite blue-ink 0.7-tip gel pen and a mason jar full of seashells and my stuffed lamb Coco.

The mountains here are so big. They make me want to cry. I hear the Pledge of Allegiance over the loudspeaker for the first time when I am 11 years old, and I complete my first American history research project. I am Deborah Sampson and I am worth remembering because I am a brave female soldier who fought for my country in the American Revolution. I am far ahead of my peers in math. But I am ages behind in lessons on the individual, self-deprecating humor, boisterous table manners, and the nature of snow. Did you know the "traffic" here is longer in the summer when Teslas from California line the roads all the way to Yellowstone? Our local breakfast place almost closed down last fall because of the rising cost of living, but was bought and preserved by a billionaire. I wrote about that at a different time… The only graffiti that exists in this town is in East Jackson. It is scrawled: "Does our well-being depend on the philanthropy of the rich?"…

I am still in that waiting room. I watch and wait and wait and wait. I pick my battles as I pick my planes coming in. I watch them rise and fall with each season—with the snow, the rain, and the sun. But the waiting room is no longer bleak, dark, heavy, or any of the words I have used before. It is a busy room, processing faces of passengers unrecognized and waiting to be known. I cannot wait to know. But I haven't heard my flight number called yet.

One time I leave for a summer to try on the salted New England air and all I wish for is to see more than two trees standing next to each other. But I think I will be ok. I have my words and I have my memories. I have them at my will—to guide and to keep. To observe and to wield.
